Hi Guys, My name is Nitesh and you are welcome to my YouTube channel. In this video also we will continue our Agentic AI Using Landgraph playlist. For the past several videos, we have been building a chatbot and in every subsequent video, we are adding a new feature to that chatbot. So by this point we have a lot of features in the chatbot. Our chatbot has a GUI, short-term memory , database persistence, and streaming capabilities. Now today we are going to add a new feature. Ok? So let me tell you a problem with our chatbot. Our chatbot is currently connected to Open AI&#39;s LLM on the back end. And that is why you can talk to it. You can talk about anything and this chatbot will give you the right response. But till now this chatbot does not have the capability to perform any action for you. So in today&#39;s video we are going to do exactly this. We will have our chatbot perform some actions. Basically what we are going to do is add some tools to our Chartbot. Ok? And what will happen because of adding those tools is that not only will our chatbot be able to talk to us normally, but if we give it any work, then our chatbot can also do that work for us. Ok? Now honestly there is no limit. You can attach any kind of tool to your chatbot. But since this is a beginner friendly tutorial. So here we will add some basic tools. So I&#39;m planning to add three tools. The first tool is where our chatbot will have the capability to perform any numerical calculation. Basically, we will give our chatbot a calculator tool. The second capability we will provide will be to search the internet. At this point, our chatbot does not have the capability to go online and search for things. For example, if I ask my chatbot, tell me what is the top news in India today ? Our chatbot won&#39;t be able to tell us this. But after adding this tool to the internet search tool in our chatbot, we will be able to go and search on the internet and get our results. And the third capability that we are going to add is the stock tool where you can enter the name of any company and that tool will bring you the stock price of that company at that moment. Ok? So this is what we are going to achieve in today&#39;s video. So I have prepared the demo. Let me show you a demo. So if you talk to the chatbot normally, if you say hi then it will function in normal mode. But as soon as you give him any work, he will identify which tool he should use and then he will use that particular tool which he feels is the right tool to execute this particular task. For example, if I ask him, what happened to the Mumbai Monorail last week? Suppose I asked this question. Ok ? Now if the chatbot does not have this particular information then it will immediately go and start searching on the internet. Look, here you might have noticed that it came and went very quickly, but it was written there that it was using Duck Duck Go search tool. So Duck Duck Go is a search engine just like Google and our website, our chatbot, is using Duck Duck Go behind the scenes to search the internet. He has not told this answer yet. Let&#39;s ask who won the South Africa vs Australia ODI match yesterday again using doug doug go search so okay it&#39;s a bit insulting but you get the idea our tool is working from the back. It&#39;s just that he is not able to give good results. I&#39;m really thinking I can show you something where we can get the right answer. But again, okay. Let me show you another tool. Let&#39;s say what is the product of 654 and 713 okay and I hit enter now see there it is visible using calculator and using calculator this is the output okay again you can cross check similarly we also have a third tool where you can find out what is the stock price of any company at this point like I said what is the current stock price of Tesla so see he is using a third tool by saying get stock price and saying that the current stock price of Tesla is $323. Ok? So this is the power of tools. Not only are you able to talk to your chatbot, but at the same time you can also get some work done from it with the help of these tools. Ok ? Again what I&#39;m thinking is if I can show you at least one use case performing properly. So let&#39;s take an example. Suppose who owns YouTube find the stock price of that company. Ok? This time we are forcing our chartbot to use two tools. First I want him to search which is the parent company of YouTube and then what is the stock price of that company? Ok? Let&#39;s see if it works or not. Look, first Doug Doug is being searched and thank God he answered. YouTube is owned by Google. Let me find the stock price of Google for you. The current stock price of Google is $54. Ok? So this is how our chatbot is going to function in the future. When it receives normal queries, it will operate in normal chat mode. When you want him to do some work, he will go to the tools and take help and execute the task. Ok? So today we are going to add this feature to our chat bot. Ok? So my plan of action is very simple. I have divided this entire video into two parts. In the first part I will teach you the fundamentals of how you can add tools to a Lang graph. Ok? Once you learn this, we will add these three tools to our chatbot project. So basically this entire video is divided into two parts. Ok? Now I am not going to go into full depth in this particular video and I am not going to tell you in full detail what the tool is? What is tool calling ? You should already know all this. If you don&#39;t know, I will suggest you a resource. I have a Joe Lang Chen playlist that you might have seen as well. There we covered this topic by calling it tools. And there I told you in great detail what are tools ? Why are they used? How do LLs call them? All these concepts are covered in great detail in this video. If you have not seen this video or you do not know about the tools then I would request you to please watch this video once. Then you will understand today&#39;s video very well. Ok? So now that we know what we are going to do in this video and how we are going to do it. Now let&#39;s start the video. Now how do you add Guys tools to the Lang graph ? Is. Before doing this practically, I want to teach you some basic theory so that you do not face any problem in understanding the further code. And we&#39;ll start our discussion with the simplest possible workflow. The simplest workflow we learned to create in Lang Graph was that you have a start note where a user asks what is the capital of India. And here you create a chat note which basically has an LLM in it and that LLM looks at this question and tells an answer and then you finally end this work flow on the end note. Now let&#39;s talk about our requirements. Now our requirement is that our chatbot wants to do both types of tasks. He also wants to have a normal conversation and if needed, he also wants to do some work. Ok? So what do we have to do ? This basic work flow will have to be changed a little. We will have to make two-three changes. Let me tell you one by one. The first change you will have to make is that here you had created a simple chart node where you had placed an LLM. You will change this and here you will have to do some additional decision making. Will decision making be required? You will have to make a decision that when this question comes to you, you will read the content of this question and try to understand whether your user wants to do simple chatting or he wants to get some work done from you. So if the question is what is the capital of India? So our chat node will understand that it has to do normal chatting and it will generate normal answer here and go to the end of this path. But if you ask a question like search the internet and tell me what is today&#39;s top news? So here your chat node will understand that now I do not want to chat. I have to perform some action. Then he will take an alternate route. Will take another route. So the first change you have to make is that this simple chat note which was used only for chatting, you will have to make a basic change in it. Now he will not only chat but will also make decisions whether he wants to chat or take action. Ok? Now let us assume that he has decided that he has to take action. So now here comes a very important concept. And the name of this concept is tool node. So what happens in Landgraph is that you prepare a special node by making a collection of all the tools that you want to add to your system, want to add to your chatbot, and that particular node handles all those tools. Ok? So this node that you see here, this is a tool node. And what&#39;s inside it? All three of our tools are kept inside it. Our calculator tool is also right here. So does our Dug Dug Go search tool. And that&#39;s what our stock price tool is all about. So now understand how the entire flow is, here the question comes, bring out today&#39;s top news. This chat node detected that he did not want to chat. The action has to be performed. So what will he do now? This will send the execution flow to the tool node. Now what is the specialty of the tool node is that it automatically understands which tool it has to execute. From here he is getting the name of the tool and what input has to be given to that tool. For example, if you ask this query, tell me today&#39;s top news. So our LLM will not only tell us to use the Doug Doug Go search tool but will also tell us what input to enter in that search tool. Top News in India Today. Now this whole thing came to the tool node. What will the Tool node do? He has all the tools sitting next to him. He will tell the Duck Duck search tool that now you start doing your work and you have got the top news in India today in the input. And then your tool will execute and it will print the answer and your work flow will end. Ok? So in a nutshell, the tool node is basically this place where all your tools reside. And the tool node is the cow that executes your tools. So in a way you can tell him that it is our tool executor. Ok? If you want to see a more formal definition, I have written it here. In Langraph a tool node is a prebuilt node. We did not make it. This functionality is provided by Langraph. That acts as a bridge between your graph and external tools. Normally in Langgraf you would write a node function yourself. It takes in a state return state. A tool node is a ready-made node that knows how to handle a list of long chain tools. Ok? It&#39;s job is to listen for tool calls. The tool that LLM has called will continue to listen to it. And as soon as it receives a tool call, it will automatically route that request to the correct tool. And then you will start seeing the response of the tool. Here you will have to learn another technical term and the name of this technical term is tools condition. So this is an inbuilt function of the long graph that you use at this place inside your chat node. And these tools condition itself tells you whether you have to chat or call the tool as per your query. Ok? So here you can see this is a conditional flow. Either you will go to this place or you will go to another place. So who is deciding this condition ? This is conditioning the tools. Ok? I have also written its definition here. It is written here. The tools condition is a prebuilt conditional edge function that helps your graph decide whether the flow should go to the tools node and back to the llm. And to the end node. Ok? So with the help of tools condition, this particular node is able to tell you whether it has to execute the normal LLM or go to the tools. Ok? So you have to focus on only two new concepts. What is a tool node and what is a tool condition. If you understand these two things then the further code will seem very easy to you. Come on guys, let&#39;s see how you can add tools inside the LangGraph in code. Ok? I have written the code. Let me give you a walk through. In the first sale, we have purchased all the necessary imports. You have seen most of the things here. Let me show you the new things. A Like this is a new thing and it&#39;s exactly what we just discussed. We are importing the tool node and tool condition from inside the Langraft.prebuilt. Ok? Plus we&#39;re importing a tool from the Lang Chen community dot tools called Dug Dug Go Search Run Lyrics which we also read in the Lang Chen playlist. Ok? And on top of that, we&#39;re importing the tool from within the Lang Chen core tools. Because we want to create our own custom tools. Like a calculator. So we ran this code. Here we have loaded our environment file. Here we are creating an LLM which is the LLM of Chat Open AI. Ok? Now here comes the most important step. Here we are creating all three of our tools. Ok? Which three? Dug Dug Go, a calculator and stock price guy. Ok? Now here you should know a concept. There are two types of tools in the luck chain. One is prebuilt, the other is custom. A prebuilt is a tool that the lung chain already gives you. Like the Dug Dug Go Search tool, it is a prebuilt tool. Lung Chen thinks there are a lot of use cases where you&#39;ll need to search the internet. So they have created this tool and given it to you. You don&#39;t need to recreate it. Then there is the second type of tool where you as a programmer create your own tools according to your custom use case. Ok? So here we are creating our own tool called a calculator. And to create your own tool, you use the @tool decorator. Again, I have taught you all these concepts in that Langchen video. Ok? So there is nothing special here. Our first tool became Dug Dug Go Search Run. We put this into a variable. After that we created a second function called calculator. We put the @ tool on top of that. So it became a tool. Ok? You will understand this calculator code just by looking at it. It is very basic code. If we need three inputs. What is the first number? What is the second number? And what operation needs to be performed between them? Plus minus multiplication division. Ok? We have installed If Else inside. And this is giving us the output. Ok? And the third tool is Get Stock Price Bol Ke. Ok? So here we are using this particular API. There is this website called Alpha Vantage. Here you will have to create an API key. It&#39;s free. Make it. Don&#39;t use mine. It ends very quickly. Its daily usage. So this is also simply returning it to you. Whatever data it is getting in JSON. Ok? There is just one thing you have to remember here. I have told you this. Aldo, whenever you are creating your own tool, you must definitely add this doc string there. Where you tell what is the exact work of this tool. Ok? He studies LLM and accordingly decides which tool he should use in a particular problem statement. Ok? So these are our three tools. We made all three of these. what shall we do now? We are making a list of all the tools. So we have three tools. We put all three of them in a list and created a variable called tools. Ok ? So inside tools we have all three of our tools. What am I doing now? I am telling my LLM that look brother, we have these three tools. So we are using the bind tools function and we are assigning this entire list of tools. Now from here the work of lung graph starts which you have already done many times. So first of all we created a state. The state is very simple. There&#39;s just a message-based variable that was exactly what we had in our Chart Bot project. Exactly the same, nothing different. Now here comes the main funda that in the workflow that we have to create, we are going to create two nodes. The first node is this chat node and the second one is this tool node. Ok? So look, this is exactly what I have done here. We first created a state graph object at this location and added two nodes to it. The first is the chat node and the second is the tools node. Now where did this tool node come from? We called the tool node built in function and passed our tools inside it. So, this automatically became a tool node. And what code is written inside the chat node? Exactly the same code is written which we wrote in the chatbot project. We&#39;re reading our messages and calling LL with tools. They are not calling it normal LLM, they are calling it LLM with Tools. Providing all your messages till now. We are getting the response that is coming in return. So this is our structure. Now how will the edges be drawn between them? It is very simple. Your first edge will be between the start and chat nodes. Basically this edge. What are we doing after that ? Adding a conditional edge that starts from the chat node. And our tools condition tells us where to go and decide. If there is normal work flow then it will go to the end. If there is a requirement for tools, the tool will go to the node. So we keep running this once for all the functions and all the cells. So I guess I drove this far. I tried this too. I tried this too. We ran this as well and then compiled the graph. And this is our graph. This is exactly the same graph that we just plotted. This one. Ok? Now from here we start asking questions about our work flow. So, what are we doing? Sending hello by calling chartbot.invoke. So let&#39;s see what output we are getting in this? We are getting the output Hi there how can I assist you? Meaning normal work flow. I asked a question and the reply from LLM was that the work flow was over. Now let&#39;s make a chart where there will be a requirement for some tool. So I said what is the product of 2 cross 3, as soon as we run this, look this is our output. Now this is not a normal output. This is an output coming from your tool. Which tool calculator tool. Similarly let us talk about what is the stock price of Apple? Run this and you can see a JSON with lots of information about Apple stocks. Ok? So you can see our flow is working. If we are having a normal conversation with it then we are going this way and if we want to perform an action then we are going this way. Now I would like you to pause the video once and think whether there is any problem in this particular structure, this particular graph or have we created the perfect structure. The Answer is the Problem. The problem is that from the chat node we are going to the tools node. And then whatever output is coming from the tools node, we are sending it to the end pay and displaying it to the user. But there are two big problems in this. The first problem is that the output of the tools is not refined or polished enough to be shown directly to the user. For example, when you asked here to tell the stock price of Apple. So you can see how the output is. A very technical output has come which is basically JSON. Now a normal user will not understand this output. Right? Ideally the output should be something like The Current Stock Price of Apple is This Much. But the problem is that since you have created the structure in such a way that you are going from the chart note to the tool node and from the tool node to the end. So you have no option to show the output of the tool in a polished manner. This is the first problem. The second problem is that if you do a little more complex query like this query what is the stock price of Apple? How much would it cost to purchase 15 shares? If you run this query, see what the output is. Some weird output came in which it was written first number 50, second number zero, operation is multiplication, result is zero. So what we&#39;re trying to do here is to find out the stock price of Apple in Step One. What do you do once you get the stock price? You would perform multiplication to find out the price you need to purchase 50 shares. Basically you do two step thinking. First, use one tool and then use the second tool based on its output. But since your flow is such that you are moving from chat node to tool node and as soon as the work of tool node is done you are moving to the end then this two step or three step flow is not possible. So what I&#39;m trying to say is that this structure isn&#39;t entirely correct. What do we have to do? We will have to modify this structure. We need to send the output of the tool back to the chat node. So suppose if you said find out 2 cross 3 or you said find out the stock price of Apple. So what will happen? From here you will come to the tool. The tool will give you JSON. You will send this Jason back to LLM. The LLM will see that JSON and he will understand that I have the answer to the question that was asked to me. He will print it in a refined manner and send it through this route. If you want to do a two-step process, tell me the stock price of Apple and tell me how much money will it cost to buy 50 stocks ? So what will happen now? Because it became a kind of loop. Let me clear this up a bit. Because I have created too much mess here. So let&#39;s say you want to do a two-step process. Where you want to know the share of Apple first. You will know the share value and then you will know how much money it will cost to buy 50 shares. So what will happen? Here when the query came to the chart node, it understood that first I have to find the stock price of Apple. So he will go here and invoke the stock tool and say tell me the stock price of Apple. As soon as you get the stock price of Apple, you will go back on this path. Now here the chat note again he has the entire history. So he will understand what the user initially asked? What did I decide then? What did the tool tell me then? So on this basis he will say that now I have got the stock price of Apple. So now I should calculate how much money it will cost me to buy 50 shares. And for this I should invoke the calculator. So it will come back to the calculator this way. He will say that the first number is 50, the second number is the stock price of Apple. Do multiplication between these two. Whatever result comes will come here. Now he will again see the entire chat history and will understand that now I have all the answers that I needed to print. Now he will give you the final result through this route. So basically what do you have to do? The key here is to create a loop between your LLM and your tools. Then all these problems will not arise. Let me show you. So what I will do is we will make a minor change in this. And that change is that we&#39;re going to come over here and we&#39;re going to write graph dot start with the add edge tool and we want to create an edge on the chat node as well. Ok? So let&#39;s do one thing: create a new graph object. Create new edges. And look, this is the new structure. This is what I want is that we are conditionally either going to the tools or going to the end. From butt tools, we&#39;re always going back to the chat node for sure. Ok ? Now see how our problem is solved. This is fine. This is a normal case. Look here what kind of JSON based output was coming now. Now see what kind of output you will get. Look the result of 2 * 3 is six. Why? Because you sent the output of the tool back to LLM and LLM handled everything correctly. Ok? Similarly, look here what kind of technical output was coming just now. Now look right and lastly if you give it two level thinking then let&#39;s see what output comes. Look, I don&#39;t know the calculation is right or not. Ok? In fact, they do one thing. Come on since we have read the length in the last video. So I have actually integrated it with the behind the scenes length. Here in our env file we have all the variables related to length also. So let&#39;s do one thing. Let&#39;s check out how this whole thing works behind the scenes. Let&#39;s go to the length and study it. So here we go guys inside Langsmith and let me show you a particular trace where we asked this question to our chatbot. What is the stock price of Apple? Now this entire execution flow can be divided into three parts. The first part is where the control goes to the chat node. And this question went to the chat node. By the way, ChatNote has all three of these tools available. It is being shown here. Asked What is the stock price of Apple? What is the output from the chat note ? He thought he&#39;d call the Get Stock Price tool and send it to Apple as input. Now if you check the tools conditions here, what is your output for this particular input? Tools. This means the tools condition is telling you to go from here to here. Ok? So we went to the tool and we called the tool Get Stock Price. In the input we sent AAPl which is the tucker of Apple. Ok? And from this we got all the details in the output which we got from the API. Ok? Now again what the control flow is is that from here, from this place, you have to go back to here. So where did you go back to? near the chart node. Now the chart node has all this information. This question came first. After that the chart node said this. Then Tool said this. On the basis of all these things he finally gave this output. And here also you can check what is the output of tools condition now? The output of the tools condition is that you go to the end. This means that now he is saying that you should go to the end of this path. So by going to Langmuth, you will visualize this whole thing as to when the tool is being called, when the LLM is being called. Then you will be able to understand this entire learning, this entire concept more deeply. So now we have completed the first part of the video. If you remember, we had planned to first learn the fundamentals of how to add tools to the long graph. We learned that. Now we will add these three tools to our existing Chartbot project. This is our next goal. So integrating the tools into our Chartbot project is now very easy. Now that you understand the code. So what have I done? We have created a new file inside our project folder. Ok? And the name of this file is lang graph underscore tool underscore back end. Basically, we are rewriting our back end where we had created the entire graph of our chart pot and this will be our new back end. So there is nothing special. You will see exactly the same things that we just discussed. Same imports are here. Load dot env. Here we completed our LLM. Here we have created exactly those three tools. Search tool, calculator tool and get stock price tool. After that we put the tools again into a variable inside the list and we bind it to the llm. We have kept the same state here. Here is the function with the same chat node. This is our tool node. You have already seen this code. The code for creating the check pointer is: This is our graph code. Exactly the same thing we just discussed. And this is one of our helper functions that we used in a past video. So this is our back end and our front end where we have written the code of Streamlet. We don&#39;t need to make any changes there. We&#39;ll use the file we used in the last video as it is. Just one minor change. Here you will write the name of your new back end file from Langraft Tool Back End. You will remove the name of the old one. That&#39;s it. Ok? And what do you have to do after doing so? You have to basically run this code. So we will simply run this code. So here&#39;s our front end. Here we wrote Hi. Here we wrote what is the product of 245 or 2456 and 1 2 3 4 and we got our output. Ok? There is a problem here. The problem is that somehow the output of our tool is also getting printed. So let&#39;s take another example. What is the stock price of Apple? Look, finally we are getting the correct answer but what is the problem that is happening in between, that you can say the output of our tool is also getting printed or streamed. Now let me tell you what is the reason behind it. If you go to your front end code, you will see that at the end, where we have written the streaming code, what we are doing there is that any message that we are getting from the back end, we are streaming it and printing it. But actually you should not do this. Two types of messages are coming from behind. There is an AI message coming in which is sending LLM and there is a tool message coming in which is sending TOOL. So ideally we want to stream AI messages. The tool is not supposed to stream messages. So you don&#39;t have to do anything. I have written a piece of code here. Where we have basically modified this thing. So what you have to do is you have to simply copy this much. This much. Now let me paste it once and show you what I did differently this time. Look, this time we have simply put a check that stream only if there is an AI message. Do n&#39;t do it otherwise. And for this we will also have to import AI message here and we will save it. Will go back and rerun it. So if we asked what is the share price of Tesla? So see, this time you are not seeing that message. Ok? So I hope the whole concept is clear to you. We created a new file in the back end. Made two small changes to the front end. Replaced the back end file and added a filter. Before streaming, we are checking that if there is an AI message then only we will stream. Otherwise, streaming will not be available. That&#39;s it. Now before ending the video, I would like to share one last thing with you. When I showed you the demo at the beginning of the video, you might have noticed that as soon as our chatbot used a tool, we were showing in a status container which tool was being used, which is kind of a good user experience. Because your users should know all the time whether normal chatting is happening or tool usage is happening. And if the tool is being used then which tool is being used. Ok? So this is one last piece of integration we have to do. Now honestly this is a lot of front end related work. And if you go to the Streamlet website and their official documentation, you will see four chat elements in the chat elements. Ok? We have already used three of these. This is the fourth one status container. And honestly its code is a bit difficult. Slightly tricky. So I am not going to explain you the entire code. Instead what I have done is I have created a completely new file for the front end which is mostly the same. Just in this last part, here we have used the status container due to which you will get to see updates about which tool is being used behind the scenes. Ok? So if you want, you can use it directly. If you want, you can break down this code and understand it with the help of Chart GPT. I do n&#39;t want to unnecessarily lengthen the video at this point. Ok ? So if you run this updated file, you will see output like this. What is the top news in India, look, search Dug Dug and here is your output. So you can do this as per your convenience. I will give you all the code in the description box. You can go and experiment. Ok? So with that, whatever we had planned, we achieved it in this video. On one hand we learned what tools are? How to use them in Langraph. Secondly, we have added another feature to our existing project which I think is a very powerful feature. Now I would like to give you homework that you try to add any tool of your choice as per what you have just learned by watching this video. And apart from this, if you liked the video then please like it and if you have not subscribed to this channel then please subscribe. See you in the next video. Bye.
